A guide to our Swift style and conventions.
(Forked from the [GitHub](https://github.com/github/swift-style-guide) guide.)

This is an attempt to encourage patterns that accomplish the following goals (in
rough priority order):

 1. Increased rigor, and decreased likelihood of programmer error
 1. Increased clarity of intent
 1. Reduced verbosity
 1. Fewer debates about aesthetics

If you have suggestions, please see our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md),
then open a pull request. :zap:

----

#### Whitespace

 * Smart tabs, the Xcode default.
 * End files with a newline.
 * Don’t leave trailing whitespace. (this would be easier if there was a script to run in Xcode to do this)
   * Not even leading indentation on blank lines.

### Return and break early

When you have to meet certain criteria to continue execution, try to exit early. So, instead of this:

```swift
if n.isNumber {
    // Use n here
} else {
    return
}
```

use this:
```swift
guard n.isNumber else {
    return
}
// Use n here
```

You can also do it with `if` statement, but using `guard` is prefered, because `guard` statement without `return`, `break` or `continue` produces a compile-time error, so exit is guaranteed.


#### Avoid Using Force-Unwrapping of Optionals

If you have an identifier `foo` of type `FooType?` or `FooType!`, don't force-unwrap it to get to the underlying value (`foo!`) if possible.

Instead, prefer this:

```swift
if let foo = foo {
    // Use unwrapped `foo` value in here
} else {
    // If appropriate, handle the case where the optional is nil
}
```

Alternatively, you might want to use Swift's Optional Chaining in some of these cases, such as:

```swift
// Call the function if `foo` is not nil. If `foo` is nil, ignore we ever tried to make the call
foo?.callSomethingIfFooIsNotNil()
```

_Rationale:_ Explicit `if let`-binding of optionals results in safer code. Force unwrapping is more prone to lead to runtime crashes.

#### Avoid Using Implicitly Unwrapped Optionals

Where possible, use `let foo: FooType?` instead of `let foo: FooType!` if `foo` may be nil (Note that in general, `?` can be used instead of `!`).

_Rationale:_ Explicit optionals result in safer code. Implicitly unwrapped optionals have the potential of crashing at runtime.

_Notable Exception:_ When dealing with `@IBOutlet` variables generated by Xcode.

#### Prefer implicit getters on read-only properties and subscripts

When possible, omit the `get` keyword on read-only computed properties and
read-only subscripts.

So, write these:

```swift
var myGreatProperty: Int {
	return 4
}

subscript(index: Int) -> T {
    return objects[index]
}
```

… not these:

```swift
var myGreatProperty: Int {
	get {
		return 4
	}
}

subscript(index: Int) -> T {
    get {
        return objects[index]
    }
}
```

_Rationale:_ The intent and meaning of the first version is clear, and results in less code.

#### When specifying a type, always associate the colon with the identifier

When specifying the type of an identifier, always put the colon immediately
after the identifier, followed by a space and then the type name.

```swift
class SmallBatchSustainableFairtrade: Coffee { ... }

let timeToCoffee: NSTimeInterval = 2

func makeCoffee(type: CoffeeType) -> Coffee { ... }
```

_Rationale:_ The type specifier is saying something about the _identifier_ so
it should be positioned with it.

Also, when specifying the type of a dictionary, always put the colon immediately
after the key type, followed by a space and then the value type.

```swift
let capitals: [Country: City] = [ Sweden: Stockholm ]
```

#### Only explicitly refer to `self` when required

When accessing properties or methods on `self`, leave the reference to `self` implicit by default:

```swift
private class History {
	var events: [Event]

	func rewrite() {
		events = []
	}
}
```

Only include the explicit keyword when required by the language—for example, in a closure, or when parameter names conflict:

```swift
extension History {
	init(events: [Event]) {
		self.events = events
	}

	var whenVictorious: () -> () {
		return {
			self.rewrite()
		}
	}
}
```

_Rationale:_ This makes the capturing semantics of `self` stand out more in closures, and avoids verbosity elsewhere.

#### Be intentional about structs and classes

Sometimes a struct is the best case, sometimes a class is the best. Follow [Apple's guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/Swift/Conceptual/Swift_Programming_Language/ClassesAndStructures.html):

> As a general guideline, consider creating a structure when one or more of these conditions apply:
> 
> * The structure’s primary purpose is to encapsulate a few relatively simple data values.
> * It is reasonable to expect that the encapsulated values will be copied rather than referenced when you assign or pass around an instance of that structure.
> * Any properties stored by the structure are themselves value types, which would also be expected to be copied rather than referenced.
> * The structure does not need to inherit properties or behavior from another existing type.
> 
> Examples of good candidates for structures include:
>
> * The size of a geometric shape, perhaps encapsulating a width property and a height property, both of type Double.
> * A way to refer to ranges within a series, perhaps encapsulating a start property and a length property, both of type Int.
> * A point in a 3D coordinate system, perhaps encapsulating x, y and z properties, each of type Double.

#### Omit type parameters where possible

Methods of parameterized types can omit type parameters on the receiving type when they’re identical to the receiver’s. For example:

```swift
struct Composite<T> {
	…
	func compose(other: Composite<T>) -> Composite<T> {
		return Composite<T>(self, other)
	}
}
```

could be rendered as:

```swift
struct Composite<T> {
	…
	func compose(other: Composite) -> Composite {
		return Composite(self, other)
	}
}
```

_Rationale:_ Omitting redundant type parameters clarifies the intent, and makes it obvious by contrast when the returned type takes different type parameters.

#### Curly braces go on the same line
In every situation.
